---
title: "Feeling Scattered and Stretched Thin"
hidden: false
categories:
  - The Beginning
tags:
  - Beginning
last_modified_at: 2019-06-24T14:25:52-05:00
---

Over the course of my life, I have had many highs and lows. Times where I feel organized and put together, with other moments where I feel scattered and stretched too thin. I'm pretty good at identifying the ups and downs of my world, but in the last decade I've noticed a new version of this creeping into my life. I have noticed with the increase in the number of Internet connected devices that I use, and the number of online accounts I possess, I am also experiencing a new form of being scattered and stretched too thin. Something that goes beyond just my job, career, kids, and the usual suspects that contribute to how I feel on a regular basis. In the last couple of years I've narrowed the causes of this feeling to be linked to my relationship with the online world--the web.

Anxiety, and feeling scattered is nothing new for me, but I've noticed that being online has taken my anxiety and my mental state to new levels. Being online has connected me to new opportunities, but it has also resulted in many competing interests on my time, energy, and focus. Beginning with my email inbox, to Facebook and Twitter, and all the apps, notifications, and other mobile, desktop, and devices. There are many ways in which platform services are getting their hooks in me, tracking my location, understanding my behavior, and targeting me. There are hundreds of different services trying to get a piece of me on any given day via my mobile phone, laptop computer, and the other devices that have infiltrated my life. All working to mine, extract, and scatter pieces of me around the web, stored on the cloud servers of hundreds of different companies around the world.

There are many companies I have entered into some sort of agreement, based upon the services they offer and the terms of services they provide me as a user. I need to regularly review these arrangements, justify their utility in my life, and work to maintain these accounts and relationships. However, there are hundreds more that I am not even aware of. Companies who provide services to the companies I engage with, and in some cases, secretly buy and sell information from companies that I have done business with. My digital bits, from photos, videos, and audio to personal details about my search history, location, and other data is spread across thousands of companies, in hundreds of different geographic jurisdictions. Mostly without my knowledge, input, or awareness that pieces of me are owned, tracked, and directed by people I do not know--no wonder I feel so scattered and stretched thin.

Some of the distribution of my bits online is within my control. I can clean up, maintain, and even delete my accounts. I can ask to be removed from email and mail distribution lists. However, there is also a significant portion of this digital sprawl of my life in which I have no control over. My address, SSN, phone number and other bits are floating around amongst creditors who may or ay not have done business with me. Many technology companies are developing machine learning models by training on data that includes information about my life. Entire industries have emerged where fortunes are made by mining the digital bits of people like me--with no consideration for me as a human being, or that these bits belong to me. The current stance of entrepreneurs and investors building technology companies is that these bits are free for the taking, all you have to do is develop a platform, application or device which will mine the digital bits of users, their friends, and those who come in contact with their operations.

I am tired of being stretched so thin. I'm getting to work on cleaning house of the accounts that are within my control. Pruning the information I share with some companies I engage with, while shutting down the accounts of others I do not use anymore, or do not agree with their data handling practices. Asking myself if I truly need this platform, application, service, and device in my life. If it does not bring me joy and value then I should not be sharing my digital bits with this entity. Limiting the sprawl of my digital self, where it is within my control. Once I've done more work in this area, I will begin addressing the harder question regarding how do I limit the sprawl of my digital self across companies I do not directly deal with--a situation that will be much harder to address, and will take more time and potentially policy level work to make the change I envision. Helping me protect my digital self, and minimize the abuse and exploitation of my self in an online environment, as well as limiting negative situations that can spill over into the physical world.
