---
title: "Hello World"
hidden: false
categories:
  - The Beginning
tags:
  - Beginning
last_modified_at: 2019-06-24T14:25:52-05:00
---

"Hello World", is a favorite way to begin any learning experience in the computational world, so it seems like a relevant place to begin this narrative. Hello World! For me, the world I'm saying hello to is just a looking glass, where my physical self is being introduced to my digital self, connecting the old me, with the new me. Over the last decade I have noticed an increasingly large impact on my physical well being introduced by this new online, digital version of myself, which is occasionally defined by me, but more often that not, this digital version of myself is being defined and directed by others. I am finding myself increasingly jore desperate to understand this new version of my digital self, better understand who it is, and what impact it is actually having on my physical self.

When I use the phrase "digital self", I feel like I'm invoking yet another meaningless phrase wielded by computational belief system sales machine, probing for ways in which I can be sold to. However, I needed a simple way to articulate a version of myself I was seeing emerge from the growing digital wreckage emerging across the world wide web. With my physical self standing in front of this looking glass, saying hello world, I realized that I couldn't let this phrase be hijacked of meaning like everything else around me, that I needed to wrestle this one phrase back, and work to define this version of myself before it was too late. I have spent 47 years working to understand my physical self, with almost 20 of these years spent defining my digital self, and the time has come to reconcile these two worlds, and make sure I'm taking care of myself.

After much study, consideration, and testing, I believe that my digital self, is an extension of my physical self. Images, video, and data about me online, are having an increasingly large impact on my physical and mental well-being. My financial well-being, credit score, career, social life, and much more is being defined by my digital self, having real impact on who I am physically. Many folks I've talked to on this subject laugh at the notion of me believing my digital self is real, and directly connected to my physical self, but these are often the same people whoo are profiting, and driving who we become, or are allowed to be in an online world. The rest of us are left struggling to stay in control of our narrative, living day to day in an increasingly chaotic and fast moving online environment.

I'm no luddite. I've embraced Internet technology. However, I can also see how this latest wave of technology is just a tool that allows a certain class of individual ideology and wider capitalist belief system to surveil, define, and direct our behaviors on and offline, prescribing behavioral templates for us all to apply when defining our digital, and increasingly physical self. From autocomplete, to Instagram stories, and Alexa, we are regularly provided templates that define and shape our behaviors, reducing who we are to a transaction, defining our everyday experiences so that they be bough and sold to the highest bidder, without much say about who we are, or acknowledgement that we are still a human being. After much contemplation, and scrutiny, I'm wrestling back my digital self. What you see online about me, publicly or privately, is an extension of who I am, and has real world consequences when it comes to how I live my life.

I believe that anything online about me, is me. Just as much as anything about me that I do in the physical world. Online images of me, are a piece of me. Online videos of me, are a piece of me. Data about me, is a piece of me. These pieces of me, are not up for sale to the highest bidder. Sure there are some situations where I will be happy to be compensated for usage and engagement with "me" (ie. a job, consulting, etc.), however these engagements all require my consent and compensation. Just because you gated your online world with a cleverly crafted terms of service that tricked me out of pieces of my digital self, doesn't make it right. Just because these pieces of me were created by me, and reside on your platform, doesn't diminish the fact that they are pieces of me, and the fact that I am a human being. Despite being just one of millions of human beings who live their digital lives on your platform each day.

The digital self is a journey for me, to better define my digital self. I'm not looking to take anti-technological stance here. I'm looking to reclaim control over my digital self. I'm looking to be the ones who controls the form in which my digital self takes, and how and where it goes. This isn't the fun and silly early days of the Internet. This is my career, financial security, physical and mental health, and overall well-being we are talking about. The health of my digital self directly impacts the health of my physical and mental self, as well as those around me. I'm tired of feeling scattered, stretched thin, and abused by so many online predators. I'm going to work to take control over my digital self, and live the best online life I possibly can. Please join me in my journey, and let me know how we can all work together to look after and tend to our digital self, in this new world we've created for ourselves.
