---
title: "Hello World"
hidden: false
categories:
  - The Beginning
tags:
  - Beginning
last_modified_at: 2019-06-24T14:25:52-05:00
---

Hello World is a favorite way to begin any learning experience in a computational world, so it seems like a fitting place to begin this journey. Hello World! For me, the world I am saying hello to is just a looking glass, where my physical self is saying hello my digital self, connecting the old me, with the new me. Over the last decade I have noticed an increasing level of impact on my physical well being originating from this new online, digital version of myself that has been evolving over the last 20 years--something which is occasionally defined by me, but more often that not, it is something that is being defined and directed by others. In 2019, I am finally tending to a burning need to understand this new version of my digital self that has emerged, working better define who I am, and what the impact the virtual world is actually inflicting on my physical well-being.

When I use the phrase "digital self", I feel like I'm invoking yet another meaningless phrase to be wielded by the computational belief sales machine, probing for ways in which human beings can be sold, or sold to. However, I need a simple, meaningful way to articulate this version of myself I am seeing evolve amidst the growing digital wreckage that has emerged across the world wide web. With my physical self standing in front of this looking glass, saying hello world, I realized that I can't let this phrase be hijacked of meaning like everything else around me, that I needed to wrestle this phrase back, and use it to define this aspect of my being before it was too late. I have spent forty-seven years working to understand my physical self, with almost twenty of these years spent defining my digital self, and the time has come to reconcile these two worlds, and make sure I'm taking care of myself in both worlds.

After much study, consideration, and testing, I strongly believe that my digital self is an extension of my physical self. Images, video, audio, and data about me online are having an increasingly significant impact on my physical and mental well-being. My financial state of being, credit score, career opportunities, social life, and much, much more is being actively defined by my digital self, having real world impact on who I am. Many folks I've talked to on this subject laugh at the notion of me believing my digital self is something meaningful, and that could be directly connected to my physical being--these are often the same people who are profiting, and defining who we can become, and allowed to be in this online realm. The rest of us are left struggling to stay in control over our daily narrative, just trying to live in an increasingly chaotic and fast moving online environment.

I'm no luddite. I've embraced Internet technology. I still live and breathe it in my ob. However, I can come to see how this latest wave of technology is just one of many tools which allows a certain genre of individual-centric ideology and a wider capitalist belief system to surveil, define, and direct our behaviors on and offline, prescribing behavioral templates for us all to apply when defining our digital, as well as physical self. From autocomplete on our phones, to Instagram stories, and Alexa and Siri voice interfaces, we are regularly provided templates that define and shape our behaviors, reducing who we are to a series of transactions, shaping our everyday experiences so that they be defined, then sold to the highest bidder, without much consideration for who we are, or acknowledgement that we are a human being. After much contemplation, and scrutiny, I'm determined to wrestle back my digital self. What you see online about me, publicly or privately, is an extension of who I am, and has real world consequences when it comes to how I live my life.

I believe that anything online about me, is me. Just as much as anything about me that I do in the physical world. Online images of me, are a piece of me. Online videos of me, are a piece of me. Audio voice recordings of me are me. Data about me, is a piece of me. These pieces of me, are not up for sale to the highest bidder. Sure there are some situations where I will consider being compensated for usage and engagement with "me" (ie. a job, consulting, etc.), however these engagements all still require my consent as well as fair compensation. Just because you gated your online world with a cleverly crafted terms of service that tricked me out of pieces of my digital self, doesn't make it right or fair. Just because these pieces of me were created by me, and reside on your platform, doesn't diminish the fact that they are still pieces of me, and the fact that I am a human being--despite from your view, I am just one of millions of human beings who live their digital lives on your platform each day.

The digital self is a journey for me, to better define my digital existence. I'm not looking to take anti-technological stance here. I'm looking to reclaim control over my digital self. I'm looking to be the ones who controls the form in which my digital self takes, and how and where it goes. This isn't the fun and silly early days of the Internet. This is my career, financial security, physical and mental health, and overall well-being we are talking about here. The health of my digital self directly impacts the health of my physical and mental self, as well as those around me. I'm tired of feeling scattered, stretched thin, and abused by so many online predators. I'm going to work to take control over my digital self, and live the best online life I possibly can. Please join me in my journey, and let me know how we can all work together to look after and tend to our digital self, in this new world we've created for ourselves.
